<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Interviewee Profiles: Faces of the New Grainshed</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h2 id="chaptertitle">Interviewee Profiles: Faces of the New Grainshed</h2>

<hr />

<p class="first"><span class="bold">Peter Endriss</span></p>
<p class="boxes">As the Head Baker at Runner &amp; Stone, Peter Endriss is the mastermind behind their spelt pretzels and buckwheat baguettes using Farmer Ground Flour from upstate New York. Located in Brooklyn, NY, &lsquo;Runner &amp; Stone&rsquo; refers to the stones used to grind grain – the runner stone and the base stone. In addition, the restaurant/bakery is located several blocks away from the site of the first gristmill in New York City. </p>

<hr class="follow" />

<hr />

<p class="first"><span class="bold">Amy Halloran</span></p>
<p class="boxes">Amy Halloran is the author of <i>The New Bread Basket </i>and countless articles that tell the story of the many farmers, millers, and bakers scattered throughout the Northeast region. She is a passionate advocate of their inspiring dedication to rebuilding the regional grain economy. At her home in upstate New York, Amy plants, harvests, and mills her own wheat.</p>

<hr class="follow" />

<hr />

<p class="first"><span class="bold">Amber Lambke</span></p>
<p class="boxes">Amber Lambke founded Maine Grains, which stone mills wheat, oats, rye, spelt, corn, and buckwheat, at their gristmill in Skowhegan, Maine. Their grains and flours, sourced from about 20 farmers in state, can be found at natural food stores, cooperatives, and farmers&rsquo; markets and are used by numerous restaurants and bakeries. Furthermore, Amber co-founded the wildly successful Kneading Conference, which promotes opportunities to learn and exchange information on grains. </p>

<hr class="follow" />

<hr />

<p class="first"><span class="bold">Don Lewis</span></p>
<p class="boxes">Don Lewis of Wild Hive Farm in Clinton Corners, New York is committed to reviving a grain-based food system within the Northeast. By working with local farmers, Don is able to provide whole and stone-ground emmer, spelt, corn, oats, spring and winter wheat, and rye. If you visit New York City or Chicago, make sure to stop by one of Eataly&rsquo;s locations, which use his products exclusively. </p>

<hr class="follow" />

<hr />

<p class="first"><span class="bold">Blair Marvin</span></p>
<p class="boxes">Blair Marvin and her husband, Andrew Heyn, spearhead Elmore Mountain Bread, a small bakery and mill located in Elmore, Vermont. Their breads are made with organic and regionally-sourced grains, which are stone ground into flour on-site, and baked in their wood-fired brick oven. As a wholesale bakery, their tasty loaves are featured at local cooperatives, restaurants, and grocery stores.  </p>

<hr class="follow" />

<hr />

<p class="first"><span class="bold">Sam Mudge</span></p>
<p class="boxes">At Grange Corner Farm, located in Lincolnville, Maine, Sam focuses on producing heirloom grains. He is currently growing corn, buckwheat, oats, and several varieties of both winter wheat and spring wheat, including Sirvinta, Warthog, and Red Fife. Bags of his grains and farm-fresh flours can be found at nearby farmers&rsquo; markets, on store shelves, and on restaurant menus. </p>

<hr class="follow" />

<hr />

<p class="first"><span class="bold">Nathan Rogers</span></p>
<p class="boxes">Nate Rogers, a fourth generation farmer, runs Rogers Farmstead in Berlin, Vermont. At this farm, Nate, along with his wife and two sons, do it all – from planting to harvesting to milling the grains fresh for each order. The family grows wheat, spelt, oats, and buckwheat. You can taste their delicious wheat by grabbing some of Elmore Mountain&rsquo;s bread or purchasing their pancake mix!</p>

<hr class="follow" />

<hr />

<p class="first"><span class="bold">Jonathan Stevens</span></p>
<p class="boxes">Husband and wife team, Jonathan Stevens and Cheryl Maffei, opened Hungry Ghost Bread in 2004 in Northampton, Massachusetts. The name, Hungry Ghost, refers to the insatiable appetite of the sourdough starter they feed on a twice-daily basis. This artisanal bakery offers bread, pizza, pastries, and a seasonal bread share. Local flours – wheat, rye, spelt, triticale, and corn – from nearby Four Star Farms, are highlighted in their tasty goods. </p>

<hr class="follow" />

<hr />

<p class="first"><span class="bold">Jim Williams</span></p>
<p class="boxes">Jim Williams is the force behind Steven Stars Bakery, which has three locations in Providence, Rhode Island, and Backdoor Bread, a stand at their local farmers&rsquo; market. Jim recently installed a mill that will provide all of his bakery locations with freshly-milled rye, wheat, and spelt. In addition, customers can snatch up bags of stone-ground whole wheat and rye flours along with their daily bread. </p>

<hr class="follow" />

</body>
</html>

