<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Rye</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="chaptertitle">Rye</h1>
<p>	Rye (<i>Secale cereale</i>) is a cereal grain and a member of the wheat tribe (Lazor 2013, 276). Nicknamed the &ldquo;poverty grain,&rdquo; rye is a natural fit for our region since it grows best in cold climates, and it also does well on poor soils (Lazor 2013, 276). Although it has less gluten than wheat, this hardy grain is naturally high in protein and fiber (Lazor 2013, 284). </p>
<p>	Wild rye originated in Turkey, where it grew best as a weed in fields of barley and wheat (Lazor 2013, 276). The plant traveled northward towards the cooler, wetter climates of Eastern Europe, where it remains the predominant bread grain to this day. Rye continued to travel westward and arrived in the Northeast with the colonists, where it was found to be better suited to the climate than wheat (Lazor 2013, 277). Rye was a main ingredient in &ldquo;Injun&rdquo; bread, a staple food in colonial New England made from a mixture of Indian corn and rye (Frisch 2008).  Although it never found widespread popularity in the United States, there is a rising demand for rye in our bourgeoning grainshed. </p>
<p>	This versatile grain can be consumed whole, cracked, sprouted, or as flour. Rye flour comes in various forms: light (which is purely ground endosperm), medium (which has some of the germ and bran removed), dark (whole grain), and pumpernickel (coarse-ground whole grain). Rye is somewhat spicy in flavor, with hints of malt and caramel (Boyce 2010, 145). Ideal flavor pairings include maple, dried cherries, dates, and stone fruits (Boyce 2010, 145). When it comes to baking with rye, if your goal is to make a dense, dark bread or pastry, then use rye alone; if not, blend rye with wheat in a one-to-one ratio for pastries or in a one-to-two ratio for bread (Boyce 2010, 145). </p>
<p> </p>

<p>Rye Walnut Cake with Concord Grape Jam</p>
<p>Loosely adapted from <a href="https://smittenkitchen.com/2010/02/walnut-jam-cake/">Smitten Kitchen</a></p>
<p>Yield: 1 8 or 9-inch cake</p>

<p>1 ¼ cups walnuts, toasted and cooled</p>
<p>⅓ cup granulated sugar</p>
<p>⅓ cup light brown sugar</p>
<p>1 stick unsalted butter (4 ounces), cut into small cubes</p>
<p>3 large eggs</p>
<p>1 teaspoon vanilla extract</p>
<p>½ cup rye flour</p>
<p>½ teaspoon baking powder</p>
<p>½ teaspoon salt</p>
<p>¼ cup concord grape jam</p>

<p>1.	Preheat oven to 350°F. Prepare cake pan with either butter and flour or pan spray, and line bottom with parchment paper. </p>
<p>2.	In a food processor, pulse walnuts and sugars together until fine. Add butter and process until combined. Add in eggs and vanilla extract, and process again until combined. Lastly, add rye flour, baking powder, and salt, and pulse until just combined. </p>
<p>3.	Pour batter into prepared cake pan and spread evenly. Dollop concord grape jam over batter and use either a knife or toothpick to swirl jam throughout cake. </p>
<p>4.	Bake cake until toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, 30-35 minutes. Cool 15 minutes in pan, then turn out onto a rack and cool completely.</p>

</body>
</html>

