<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Rye Walnut Cake with Concord Grape Jam</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>

<h3>Rye Walnut Cake with Concord Grape Jam</h3>
<p class="spaced">Loosely adapted from <a href="https://smittenkitchen.com/2010/02/walnut-jam-cake/">Smitten Kitchen</a></p>
<p class="spaced">Yield: 1 8 or 9-inch cake</p>

<p>1 ¼ cups walnuts, toasted and cooled</p>
<p>⅓ cup granulated sugar</p>
<p>⅓ cup light brown sugar</p>
<p>1 stick unsalted butter (4 ounces), cut into small cubes</p>
<p>3 large eggs</p>
<p>1 teaspoon vanilla extract</p>
<p>½ cup rye flour</p>
<p>½ teaspoon baking powder</p>
<p>½ teaspoon salt</p>
<p>¼ cup concord grape jam</p>

<ol>
	<li class="recipe">Preheat oven to 350°F. Prepare cake pan with either butter and flour or pan spray, and line bottom with parchment paper.</li>
	<li class="recipe">In a food processor, pulse walnuts and sugars together until fine. Add butter and process until combined. Add in eggs and vanilla extract, and process again until combined. Lastly, add rye flour, baking powder, and salt, and pulse until just combined.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Pour batter into prepared cake pan and spread evenly. Dollop concord grape jam over batter and use either a knife or toothpick to swirl jam throughout cake.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Bake cake until toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, 30-35 minutes. Cool 15 minutes in pan, then turn out onto a rack and cool completely.</li>
</ol>

</body>
</html>

