<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Books</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="chaptertitle">Books</h1>

<p class="boxes-left">Boyce, Kim. 2010.<i> Good to the Grain: Baking with Whole-Grain Flours</i>. New York: Stewart, Tabori &amp; Chang.</p>

<p class="boxes-left">Fromartz, Samuel. 2014.<i> In Search of the Perfect Loaf: A Home Baker&rsquo;s Odyssey.</i> New York: Penguin Books.</p>

<p class="boxes-left">GrowNYC. 2010. &ldquo;Greenmarket&rsquo;s Grains Guide.&rdquo; <a href="http://www.grownyc.org/files/gmkt/grainbooklet.pdf">http://www.grownyc.org/files/gmkt/grainbooklet.pdf</a>. </p>

<p class="boxes-left">Halloran, Amy. 2015. <i>The New Bread Basket: How the New Crop of Grain Growers, Plant Breeders, Millers, Maltsters, Bakers, Brewers, and Local Food Activists Are Redefining 	Our Daily Loaf</i>. White River Junction, VT: Chelsea Green Publishing.</p>

<p class="boxes-left">Lazor, Jack. 2013. <i>The Organic Grain Grower: Small-Scale, Holistic Grain Production for the Home and Market Producer</i>. White River Junction, VT: Chelsea Green Publishing. </p>

<p class="boxes-left">Logsdon, Gene. 2009.<i> Small-Scale Grain Raising: An Organic Guide to Growing, Processing, and Using Nutritious Whole Grains for Home Gardeners and Local Farmers</i>. Second Edition. White River Junction, VT: Chelsea Green Publishing.</p>

<p class="boxes-left">Medrich, Alice. 2014. <i>Flavor Flours</i>. New York, NY: Artisan.</p>

<p class="boxes-left">Pitzer, Sara. 2009. <i>Homegrown Whole Grains: Grow, Harvest and Cook Wheat, Barley, Oats, Rice, Corn and More</i>. North Adams, MA: Storey Publishing.</p>

<p class="boxes-left">Robertson, Chad. 2013. <i>Tartine Book No.3</i>. San Francisco, CA: Chronicle Books.</p>

<p class="boxes-left">Rogosa, Eli. 2016. <i>Restoring Heritage Grains</i>: <i>The Culture, Biodiversity, Resilience, and Cuisine 	of Ancient Wheats.</i> White River Junction, VT: Chelsea Green Publishing.</p>

</body>
</html>

