<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>The New Grainshed</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="chaptertitle">The New Grainshed</h1>
<p>For over a century, consumers in the Northeast have become accustomed to wheat grown on industrial farms in Kansas and North Dakota, transformed into nutrient-poor flour by way of roller mills, and made into artificially enriched, white loafs of bread produced in large factories. We have sacrificed flavor, our health, and the health of our soil, for convenience and cheap food. However, fast-forward to the present day, small-scale grain production has begun to gain traction here. A resurgence of interest in alternative grains thanks to pioneers – including, but in no way limited to, Jack Lazor of Butterworks Farm, Sam Sherman of Champlain Valley Milling, Heather Darby at the University of Vermont, and Randy George of Red Hen Bakery – has led to the creation of a budding Northeast grainshed. Farmers, millers, and bakers across the region are working to revitalize our grain economy and their dedication, passion, and superb products are finally getting their well-deserved attention. Meanwhile, consumers are yearning for something more than white, non-descript powder; they want flavorful, nutritious, local flours. </p>
<p>This resurgence has been driven by a combination of factors. First off, farmers have been motivated to grow grain due to increasing prices for animal feed and to incorporate grains into their crop rotations in order to maintain healthy soil (Russell 2008). Simultaneously, the local food movement has exploded. Consumers were introduced to the idea of the &ldquo;food mile,&rdquo; which makes the case that the less removed our food is from the farm, the less its environmental impact. The burgeoning interest in where, how, and by whom our food is grown reflects consumers&rsquo; increasing distaste for &ldquo;anonymous&rdquo; food. In turn, bakeries have begun to actively seek out locally grown and milled flour and to incorporate them into their breads and baked goods.  </p>
<p>As a result, the spotlight on local grains has significantly increased within the last decade. Starting with the formation of the Northern Grain Growers Association in 2004, whose mission is to support grain production, processing and marketing; the inaugural Kneading Conference in 2007, which brings farmers, millers, and bakers together for hands-on learning; and the birth of GrowNYC&rsquo;s Regional Grains Project, which in 2009 began requiring bakers selling at New York City (NYC) farmers&rsquo; markets to use a minimum of 15% local grain in their baked goods, the grain industry in the region has blossomed. For instance, bakers at NYC farmers&rsquo; markets are using 65,000 pounds of local flour each month (GrowNYC 2015). These efforts have kickstarted awareness of and demand for local grains and the rebuilding of necessary infrastructure to grow, mill, and distribute them to the marketplace. </p>
<p>The moment for local grains is now ‒ &ldquo;more grains are in the ground, and more flour is at the mills&rdquo; (Halloran 2015, 39). People are making connections to the farmers, millers, and bakers that grow their grains and bake their bread. So where do we go from here? We need people like you supporting and spreading awareness of the local grain movement. Due to the efforts put forth by the passionate grain advocates interviewed for this guide, profiled below, and subsequently featured throughout this guide, you can help by purchasing regional grain, using locally-milled flour, and enjoying their delicious bread and pastries. I want to sincerely thank these individuals for the time they spent sharing information and answering my questions; this guide would not have been possible without their generosity.</p>
</body>
</html>

