<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Regional Grainshed</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="chaptertitle">Regional Grainshed</h1>
<p>Before the advent of the white, non-descript powder we&rsquo;ve come to know as &ldquo;flour,&rdquo; amber fields were a common sight in the Northeast. Two hundred years ago, family farms in the region were diversified and self-sufficient, growing fruit, vegetables, and grains on small plots. Farmers grew specific grain varieties, collectively known as landraces, which were locally adapted to fit the region, its climate, and its growing conditions. Farm families harvested and cleaned their grains, then brought them to one of the more than 15,000 small mills scattered throughout the region to be ground into flour (Vlaun 2005). Freshly milled flour was carried home to be made into bread or other goods. Thus, this lifestyle of locally growing and grinding grains paved the way for the Northeast&rsquo;s emergence as the original breadbasket of America.</p>
<p>During the seventeenth century, European settlers brought seeds to the colonies and planted them upon arrival. Grains such as wheat, rye, and oats soon became staples in Plymouth, Massachusetts as early as 1621, in Long Island, New York around 1622, and in Pennsylvania by 1682 (Ball 1930, 51). Even in the area that is now known as modern-day Brooklyn, farmers were providing wheat, rye, oats, barley, and corn for a growing population. By 1792, wheat was considered &ldquo;the primary grain crop in every region&rdquo; of the Northeast (Lazor 2013, 4). New York and Pennsylvania eventually became the leading wheat producers of this growing nation (Frisch 2008). Wheat production also peaked in Maine and Vermont, where farmers were successfully growing rye and oats in tandem (Lazor 2013, 4-5). </p>
<p>	Despite wheat&rsquo;s soar, several factors would eventually lead to its decline in the Northeast. Black stem rust, also known as the &ldquo;blast,&rdquo; spread quickly throughout the colonies in the 1660s (Frisch 2008). This parasitic fungal disease, which arrived on transatlantic ships, destroyed wheat crops in Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island (Kelsey 1980). The devastation caused by the blast is the primary reason why these states never emerged as serious wheat-producing areas (Olmstead and Rhode 2002, 948). </p>
<p>Meanwhile, wheat became New York&rsquo;s major cash crop. However by 1776, continual cropping, declining soil fertility, and the arrival of a new pest ‒ the Hessian Fly, which attacks cereal crops and weakens them so that they do not produce grain ‒ had pushed production further west, from Long Island to the Hudson Valley and finally to the Genesee Valley (Frisch 2008). From New York, the fly spread into Pennsylvania and devastated remaining wheat-growing areas in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island (Kelsey 1980). Farmers did their best to adapt by growing other grains, shifting their planting dates, and planting hardier varieties; however despite their efforts, wheat production declined rapidly (Eves 2016). 	</p>
<p>The opening of the Erie Canal in 1825 did little to revive wheat production in the eastern parts of the region as production migrated west. Wheat production boomed in the Genesee Valley of western New York ‒ the town of Rochester, which was known as &ldquo;Flour City,&rdquo; had 21 active flour mills by 1835, and the cost of shipping a ton of flour to New York City was a mere ten dollars (Halloran 2015, 29; Lazor 2013, 4). Unfortunately, Rochester&rsquo;s heyday was short lived. A pest, called the wheat midge, which damages grain as its growing, had arrived from Canada and destroyed over &ldquo;40 percent of the state&rsquo;s wheat crop&rdquo; in 1854 alone (Olmstead and Rhode 2002, 952). Moreover, midges decimated wheat fields in Pennsylvania, Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine, Massachusetts, and Connecticut (Eves 2016).</p>
<p>The Northeast was unable to rebound from the economic and agricultural devastations caused by the blast, the Hessian fly, the Erie Canal, and the wheat midge. Wheat production continued to move westward towards Minneapolis and Rochester re-emerged as &ldquo;Flower City&rdquo; for its developing nursery trade (Frisch 2008). As grain growing and milling moved further west, flour was transformed into a commodity and consumers in the region had begun to rely on a product that was grown and milled hundreds of miles away for their daily bread (Frisch 2008). </p>
<p> </p>
</body>
</html>

