<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Glossary</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>

<h1 id="chaptertitle">Glossary</h1>

<p class="first"><strong>Ancient Grains</strong>: Einkorn, emmer, spelt, and kamut are typically classified as ancient grains. These wheats date from the early domestication of staple crops, however there is no federal standard that regulates the classification of ancient grains (Menayang 2016).</p>

<p class="first"><strong>Bolting</strong>: The process of sifting flour in order to remove a portion of the bran.</p>

<p class="first"><strong>Dehulling</strong>: The removal of hulls from grain kernels. Some grains, such as spelt, emmer, and einkorn, require further dehulling since they are not &ldquo;free threshing&rdquo; due to their tough, inedible hulls (Halloran 2015, 66). </p>

<p class="first"><strong>Domestication</strong>: The modification of plants and animals to meet human needs, which renders them dependent on humans for their survival.</p>

<p class="first"><strong>Extraction rate</strong>: The amount of germ and bran that remain in the flour after milling. </p>

<p class="first"><strong>Farro</strong>: The term, farro, can refer to einkorn, emmer, or spelt. These grains are also known as the covered or hulled wheats. In Italian cuisine, einkorn is referred to as <i>farro piccolo,</i> emmer as <i>farro medio</i>, and spelt as <i>farro grande </i>(Nourished Kitchen n.d.). Most imported farro is actually spelt. Always check the label for the name of the grain, which will say <i>Triticum monococcum</i> (einkorn), <i>Triticum dicoccum </i>(emmer), or <i>Triticum spelta </i>(spelt). </p>

<p class="first"><strong>Flour</strong>: Made by grinding grains.</p>

<p class="first"><strong>Grains</strong>: A type of cereal grass cultivated for its edible grain, which is composed of a germ, bran, and endosperm.</p>

<p class="first"><strong>Heirloom or heritage grains</strong>: Grain varieties that were developed before 1950, considered the advent of professional plant breeding programs, are known as heirloom (or heritage) grains (Halloran 2015, 44). For example, Red Fife, a variety of wheat, is categorized as an heirloom grain. Unlike modern grains, ancient and heirloom grains are tall, diverse, and comprise an assembly of unique traits, ranging from disease resistance to heat or drought tolerance to water efficiency.</p>

<p class="first"><strong>Landraces</strong>: Ancient and heirloom grain varieties that have been selected and bred by farmers to fit a specific culture, region, and/or cropping system. These varieties have adapted to the area in which they are grown. Many landraces became lost after the advent of modern plant breeding programs and are now preserved in seed gene banks (Halloran 2015, 44).</p>

<p class="first"><strong>Local</strong>: Currently, there is no legal or universally accepted definition of &lsquo;local&rsquo;. While there are various elements inherent in &lsquo;local&rsquo; &mdash; landscape, sense of place, relationships, distance &mdash; it is problematic to ascribe a universal definition to the term because each food system differs agriculturally, socially, politically, demographically, culturally and economically (Ackerman-Leist 2013, 6-17). Rather than ascribing to a hard-and-fast definition, &lsquo;local&rsquo; must have the ability to adapt. Therefore, what &lsquo;local&rsquo; looks like for each of us will differ. While local food might look different for each consumer, there are several shared benefits of purchasing and consuming local food, regardless of one&rsquo;s location. Local food is better for you; it preserves diversity, builds community, strengthens the economy, and benefits the environment. </p>

<p class="first"><strong>Modern grains</strong>: Modern grains, those developed by plant breeding programs after 1950, generally have shorter stalkers (semidwarf), are high yielding, and rely on synthetic fertilizers and pesticides to grow. Dr. Norman E. Borlaug, the &ldquo;Father of the Green Revolution,&rdquo; is credited with developing modern wheat. Approximately 50 percent of all worldwide wheat consists of semidwarf varieties, with the total reaching 90 percent in the developing world (Shiferaw et al. 2013, 299).</p>

<p class="first"><strong>Northeast region</strong>: For the purpose of this guide, the Northeast region is comprised of nine states: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania. </p>

<p class="first"><strong>Pseudocereals</strong>: Although not true grains, they are used in the same way as the cereal grains: their seeds can be cooked whole or ground. Amaranth and buckwheat are pseudocereals. </p>

<p class="first"><strong>Roller mill</strong>: In a roller mill, the germ and bran are removed first, then the endosperm is separated and subsequently passed through the rollers and sifted multiple times to produce pure white flour (Lazor 2013, 215). This flour is shelf stable due to the removal of the germ. Since it retains only trace amounts of the original vitamins and nutrients, it is enriched with iron and B vitamins in order to compensate for lost nutrients (Jabr 2015). </p>

<p class="first"><strong>Stone ground</strong>: Stone mills grind their grains whole – germ, bran, and endosperm. The resulting &ldquo;unrefined&rdquo; flour retains all of the essential vitamins, minerals, and fiber (see Grain Anatomy). Unfortunately, the term &ldquo;stone ground&rdquo; is not regulated and even roller-milled flour can be labeled &ldquo;stone ground&rdquo; if it touches a stone during the process (Weise 2006). </p>

<p class="first"><strong>Threshing</strong>: Beating the stalks in order to free the grain kernels from the ears. </p>

<p class="first"><strong>Winnowing</strong>: Using air movement to separate the chaff and hull from grain kernels. </p>

</body>
</html>

