<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Looking Ahead</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="chaptertitle">Looking Ahead</h1>
<p>	Despite the growing demand for local grains, there are challenges ahead for farmers, millers, bakers, and consumers on the road to establishing a viable grain economy in the Northeast. For farmers, it starts with the seed. With the revival of a local grainshed, there has been a resurgence of interest in ancient, heirloom, and landrace grains, however seed supplies are limited. Since the introduction of modern grains, these varieties have been severely underutilized and some are on the verge of extinction (Rogosa 2012). </p>
<p>	This challenge, combined with the hardships of growing food-grade grains, expensive equipment, a lack of infrastructure, inadequate access to new markets, and an insufficient knowledge regarding the growing, harvesting, cleaning, drying and storing of grains, are not insurmountable but it will take more time, people, and resources to produce enough grain to meet demand. Meanwhile, there are not enough mills in the region (which can be attributed to a loss of milling knowledge and the cost of setting up a mill) and those that are in operation are often running at full capacity (Sen 2008). Finally, local flour can be a hard sell for bakers and other interested consumers, due to its price, inconsistent supply (see Resources), and its finicky nature.</p>
<p>	Remember that local tastes better, is more nutritious, preserves diversity, builds community, supports the economy, and benefits the environment. So where do you go from here? You need to get others talking about these grains and fueling demand by engaging in conversations, effectively using social media, and spreading the word. When more and more people see local grains as unique, flavorful, and what flour should be, then our regional grainshed – more farms, more mills, and more flour for all – will become a reality and it will be an amazing thing. </p>
</body>
</html>

