<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Triticale</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="chaptertitle">Triticale</h1>
<p>	Triticale (<i>Triticosecale rimpaui) </i>is a hybrid cereal grain, which resulted from crossing rye and durum wheat. Unlike many modern grains, it requires few pesticides, reduces soil erosion, and can capture excess soil nitrogen; it is also high-yielding, disease resistant, and can grow in adverse conditions (Whole Grains Council n.d.). Although it has been slow to generate demand, it is well suited to our region – triticale grows well in western New York and southern New England (Lazor 2013, 295). </p>
<p>	The first attempts to cross rye and durum wheat occurred in Scotland in 1875, with further attempts made in Russia in 1918, in Sweden and in Canada during the 1930s, and later on at the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) in Mexico (Lazor 2013, 295). It was not until 1969 that a viable variety was released to the public, however triticale fell out of the spotlight rather quickly when it produced &ldquo;less-than-perfect&rdquo; bread and pastries at bakeries (Lazor 2013, 295). Within the Northeast, only a handful of farmers and millers are currently handling this grain, including Maine Grains and Four Star Farms in Massachusetts.</p>
<p>	Triticale resembles several of the whole grains in this guide, in that it has a higher protein level and less gluten than wheat (GrowNYC 2010, 6). With its subtle rye flavor, this flour can be used in breads and other baked goods, but be sure to keep structure and texture in mind when determining the right percentage of triticale to use. For example, if used in place of cake flour, your cakes will have delicate crumb, and when substituted for all-purpose flour in piecrusts, you&rsquo;ll achieve the perfect flakiness (Four Star Farms n.d.). </p>

<p> </p>

<p>Triticale Zucchini Bread</p>
<p>Loosely adapted from <a href="https://smittenkitchen.com/2007/07/summer-of-the-bats/">Smitten Kitchen</a></p>
<p>Yield: 1 loaf</p>

<p>2 large eggs</p>
<p>½ cup vegetable oil</p>
<p>7 tablespoons granulated sugar</p>
<p>7 tablespoons light brown sugar</p>
<p>1 cup grated zucchini</p>
<p>1 teaspoon vanilla extract</p>
<p>1 cup all-purpose flour</p>
<p>½ cup triticale flour</p>
<p>1 teaspoon ground cinnamon</p>
<p>1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg</p>
<p>½ teaspoon baking soda</p>
<p>¼ teaspoon baking powder</p>
<p>½ teaspoon salt</p>
<p>⅓ cup chopped walnuts, toasted</p>
<p>turbinado sugar, optional</p>

<p>1.	Preheat oven to 350°F. Prepare loaf pan with either butter and flour or pan spray, and line bottom with parchment paper. </p>

<p>2.	In a large bowl, beat the eggs, oil, and sugar. Mix in zucchini and vanilla extract.</p>

<p>3.	In a separate medium-sized bowl, combine all-purpose flour, triticale flour, cinnamon, nutmeg, baking soda, baking powder, salt, and walnuts.</p>

<p>4.	Add flour mixture to egg mixture and stir. Pour batter into prepared loaf pan and sprinkle turbinado sugar over top if using.</p>

<p>5.	Bake bread until a toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, about 60 minutes. Cool the loaf in the pan on a rack for 15 minutes, then remove loaf from pan, and cool completely on rack. </p>


</body>
</html>

