<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Works Cited</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="chaptertitle">Works Cited</h1>

<p class="cited">Ackerman-Leist, Philip. 2013. <i>Rebuilding the Foodshed</i>. White River Junction, VT: 	Chelsea Green Publishing.</p>

<p class="cited">Ball, Carleton R. 1930. &ldquo;The History of American Wheat Improvement.&rdquo; <i>Agricultural History</i> 	4(2): 48-71. <a href="http://www.jstor.org/stable/3739359">http://www.jstor.org/stable/3739359</a>. </p>

<p class="cited">Basey, Marleeta F. 2004. &ldquo;Why Whole Wheat is Way Better.&rdquo; <i>Mother Earth News</i>, December/January. Accessed September 22, 2016. <a href="http://www.motherearthnews.com/real-food/whole-wheat-is-way-better-zmaz04djzsel?PageId=1">http://www.motherearthnews.com/real-food/whole-wheat-is-way-better-zmaz04djzsel?PageId=1</a>.</p>

<p class="cited">Boyce, Kim. 2010. <i>Good to the Grain: Baking with Whole-Grain Flours</i>. New York: Stewart, Tabori &amp; Chang.</p>

<p class="cited">Bluebird Grain Farms. 2016. &ldquo;Organic Emmer Flour.&rdquo; Accessed October 25. 	http://www.bluebirdgrainfarms.com/product/organic-emmer-farro-flour/. </p>

<p class="cited">Christensen, Emma. 2012. &ldquo;Baking with Whole Grains: Spelt Flour.&rdquo; <i>Kitchn</i>, March 2. Accessed 	October 31, 2016. http://www.thekitchn.com/baking-with-whole-grains-spelt-	flouringredient-spotlight-166899. </p>

<p class="cited">Cornell University. 2009. &ldquo;Information for Buckwheat Growers.&rdquo; Accessed October 17, 2016. 	http://www.hort.cornell.edu/bjorkman/lab/buck/guide/whygrow.php.  </p>

<p class="cited">Debros, Kathryn. 2014. &ldquo;Flour to the People!&rdquo; <i>Edible Green Mountains</i>, October 31. Accessed 	October 4, 2016. http://ediblegreenmountains.ediblefeast.com/recipes/flour-people. </p>

<p class="cited">Endriss, Peter. 2016. Interview by Kristina Razon, June 23.</p>

<p class="cited">Eves, Jamie H. 2016. &ldquo;How Black Stem Rust, Hessian Flies, and Wheat Midges Destroyed 	Wheat Farming in Connecticut.&rdquo; Accessed August 15, 2016. 	<a href="http://www.millmuseum.org/history/sweat-of-their-brows/decline-of-agriculture/">http://www.millmuseum.org/history/sweat-of-their-brows/decline-of-agriculture/</a>. </p>

<p class="cited">Faris, Justin D. 2014. &ldquo;Wheat Domestication: Key to Agricultural Revolutions Past and Future.&rdquo; 	In <i>Genomics of Plant Genetics Resources</i>. DOI 10.1007/978-94-007-7572-5_18. </p>

<p class="cited">Foster, Kelli. 2015. &ldquo;Einkorn Flour: An Ancient Wheat for Baking Modern Desserts.&rdquo; <i>Kitchn</i>, 	October 1. Accessed October 18, 2016. http://www.thekitchn.com/einkorn-flour-the-	ancient-wheat-for-baking-modern-desserts-224035. </p>

<p class="cited">Four Star Farms. n.d. &ldquo;Triticale Flour.&rdquo; Accessed November 1, 2016. 	http://fourstarfarms.com/shop/flour/triticale-flour/. </p>

<p class="cited">Frisch, Tracy. 2008. &ldquo;A short story of wheat.&rdquo; <i>The Valley Table</i>. Accessed August 15, 2016. 	<a href="http://t.valleytable.com/article.php?article=004+Features%2FA+short+history+of+wheat">http://t.valleytable.com/article.php?article=004+Features%2FA+short+history+of+wheat</a>. </p>

<p class="cited">GrowNYC. 2010. &ldquo;Greenmarket&rsquo;s Grains Guide.&rdquo; Accessed September 22, 2016. 	<a href="http://www.grownyc.org/files/gmkt/grainbooklet.pdf">http://www.grownyc.org/files/gmkt/grainbooklet.pdf</a>. </p>

<p class="cited">GrowNYC. 2015. &ldquo;Greenmarket Regional Grains Project.&rdquo; Accessed August 22, 2016. 	<a href="http://www.grownyc.org/grains">http://www.grownyc.org/grains</a>. </p>

<p class="cited">Halloran, Amy. 2015. <i>The New Bread Basket: How the New Crop of Grain Growers,             	Plant Breeders, Millers, Maltsters, Bakers, Brewers, and Local Food Activists 	Are Redefining Our Daily Loaf</i>. White River Junction, VT: Chelsea Green Publishing.</p>

<p class="cited">Halloran, Amy. 2016. Interview by Kristina Razon, April 12.</p>

<p class="cited">Heritage Grain Conservancy. 2016. &ldquo;Einkorn.&rdquo; Accessed October 18. 	http://growseed.org/einkorn.html. </p>

<p class="cited">Jabr, Ferris. 2015. &ldquo;Bread is Broken.&rdquo; <i>The New York Times</i>, October 29. Accessed September 27, 	2016. http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/01/magazine/bread-is-broken.html?_r=1. </p>

<p class="cited">Kelsey, Darwin P. 1980. &ldquo;Early New England Farm Crops: Small Grains&mdash;Barley, Rye, Oats, 	Buckwheat and Wheat.&rdquo; 	<a href="http://resources.osv.org/explore_learn/document_viewer.php?DocID=779">http://resources.osv.org/explore_learn/document_viewer.php?DocID=779</a>. </p>

<p class="cited">Kersbergen, Mallory, and Molloy. 2010. &ldquo;Growing Organic Cereal Grains in the Northeast.&rdquo; 	University of Maine Cooperative Extension. Accessed September 26, 2016. 	http://www.uvm.edu/extension/cropsoil/wp-content/uploads/growing-organic-small-	grains-2-12-10.pdf. </p>

<p class="cited">Lazor, Jack. 2013. <i>The Organic Grain Grower: Small-Scale, Holistic Grain Production             	for the Home and Market Producer</i>. White River Junction, VT: Chelsea Green 	Publishing.</p>

<p class="cited">Lyon, Zachary D. 2007. &ldquo;Going (well) against the grain, emmer and all.&rdquo; <i>Rodale Institute</i>, June 	15. Accessed October 25, 2016. 	<a href="http://newfarm.rodaleinstitute.org/features/2007/0607/emmer/lyons.shtml">http://newfarm.rodaleinstitute.org/features/2007/0607/emmer/lyons.shtml</a>. </p>

<p class="cited">Magdoff, Fred, and Harold van Es. 2009. <i>Building Soils for Better Crops: Sustainable Soil 	Management</i>. 10. Sustainable Agriculture Network Handbook Series. Sustainable 	Agriculture Research &amp; Education.</p>

<p class="cited">Medrich, Alice. 2014. <i>Flavor Flours</i>. New York, NY: Artisan.</p>



<p class="cited">Menayang, Adi. 2016. &ldquo;How consumer demand is resurrecting ancient grains from the past.&rdquo; 	<i>Food Navigator USA</i>, June 29. Accessed October 7. http://www.foodnavigator-	usa.com/Suppliers2/How-consumer-demand-is-resurrecting-ancient-grains-from-the-	past/?utm_source=newsletter_daily&amp;utm_medium=email&amp;utm_campaign=29-Jun-	2016&amp;c=ppwxb1llVQ1V4vvsovcDKMtFITzY9NHP&amp;p2=. </p>

<p class="cited">New American Stone Mills. 2016. &ldquo;The Mills.&rdquo; Accessed September 28, 2016. 	http://www.newamericanstonemills.com/the-mills.</p>

<p class="cited">Nourished Kitchen. n.d. &ldquo;Good Questions: Einkorn, Spelt, Emmer, Farro and Heirloom Wheat.&rdquo; 	Accessed December 8, 2016. http://nourishedkitchen.com/good-questions-einkorn-spelt-	heirloom-wheat-ancient-grains/. </p>

<p class="cited">Mallory, Ellen, Tod Bramble, Matt Williams, and Jim Amaral. 2012. &ldquo;Understanding Wheat 	Quality – What Bakers and Millers Need, and What Farmers Can Do.&rdquo; <i>The University of 	Maine</i>. Accessed September 26, 2016. https://extension.umaine.edu/publications/1019e/. </p>

<p class="cited">Marvin, Blair. 2016. Interview by Kristina Razon, April 12.</p>

<p class="cited">Mudge, Sam. 2016. Interview by Kristina Razon, May 22. </p>

<p class="cited">Olmstead, Alan L. and Paul W. Rhode. 2002. &ldquo;The Red Queen and the Hard Reds: Productivity 	Growth in American Wheat, 1800-1940.&rdquo; <i>The Journal of Economic History</i> 62(4): 929-	966. </p>

<p class="cited">Peng, Junhua H., Dongfa Sun, and Eviatar Nevo. 2011. &ldquo;Domestication evolution, genetics and 	genomics in wheat.&rdquo; <i>Molecular Breeding</i> 28:281-301. DOI 10.1007/s11032-011-9608-4.</p>

<p class="cited">Rodriguez, Johnette. 2016. &ldquo;The Backdoor Bread Project.&rdquo; <i>Edible Rhody</i>, March 10. Accessed 	October 4. http://ediblerhody.ediblefeast.com/food-thought/backdoor-bread-project. </p>

<p class="cited">Rogers, Nathan. 2016. Interview by Kristina Razon, April 24. </p>

<p class="cited">Russell, Jenna. 2008. &ldquo;Catching an amber wave.&rdquo; The Boston Globe, June 22. Accessed 	December 8, 2016. 	http://archive.boston.com/news/local/vermont/articles/2008/06/22/catching_an_amber_</p>
<p class="cited">	wave/. </p>

<p class="cited">Salamini, Francesco, Hakan Özkan, Andrea Brandolini, Ralf Schäfer-Pregl, and William Martin. 	2002. &ldquo;Genetics and Geography of Wild Cereal Domestication in the Near East.&rdquo; <i>Nature 	Reviews </i>3: 429-441.</p>

<p class="cited">Shewry, P.R. 2009. &ldquo;Wheat.&rdquo; <i>Journal of Experimental Botany</i> 60(6): 1537-1553. </p>
<p class="cited">	DOI 10.1093/jxb/erp058.</p>

<p class="cited">Shiferaw, Bekele, Melinda Smale, Hans-Joachim Braun, Etienne Duveiller, Mathew Reynolds, 	and Geoffrey Muricho. 2013. &ldquo;Crops that feed the world 10. Past successes and future 	challenges to the role played by wheat in global food security.&rdquo; <i>Food Security</i> 5(3):291-	317. DOI: 10.1007/s12571-013-0263-y. </p>

<p class="cited">Sen, Indrani. 2008. &ldquo;Flour that has the Flavor of Home.&rdquo; <i>New York Times</i>, September 9. 	Accessed November 8, 2016. 	http://www.nytimes.com/2008/09/10/dining/10wheat.html?_r=1. </p>

<p class="cited">Seymour, John. 2009. <i>The Self-Sufficient Life and How to Live It: The Complete Back-to-	Basics 	Guide</i>. New York: Dorling Kindersley Ltd.</p>

<p class="cited">Stevens, Jonathan. 2016. Interview by Kristina Razon, June 14.</p>

<p class="cited">Tanno, Ken-ichi and George Willcox. 2006. &ldquo;How Fast was Wild Wheat Domesticated?&rdquo; 	<i>Science Translational Medicine</i> 311(5769): 1886. DOI 10.1126/science.1124635.</p>

<p class="cited">Vlaun, Scott. 2005. &ldquo;The Taste of Maine in Grain.&rdquo; <i>Mother Earth News</i>, February/March. 	Accessed August 15, 2016. </p>
<p class="cited">	<a href="http://www.motherearthnews.com/real-food/the-taste-of-maine-in-grain.aspx">http://www.motherearthnews.com/real-food/the-taste-of-maine-in-grain.aspx</a>. </p>

<p class="cited">Weise, Elizabeth. 2006. &ldquo;The hard truth about stone-ground flour.&rdquo; <i>USA Today</i>, March 14. 	Accessed September 27, 2016. http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/news/health/2006-03-13-	stone-ground-flour_x.htm.   </p>

<p class="cited">Whole Grains Council. n.d. &ldquo;Rye + Triticale August Grains of the Month.&rdquo; Accessed October 31, 	2016. http://wholegrainscouncil.org/whole-grains-101/easy-ways-enjoy-whole-	grains/grain-month-calendar/rye-triticale-august-grains-month. </p>

<p class="cited">Williams, Jim. 2016. Interview by Kristina Razon, April 20.</p>



</body>
</html>

