<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Baking with Local Flours</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>

<h1 id="chaptertitle">Baking with Local Flours</h1>

<p>Once you have some farm-fresh flour in your pantry, it&rsquo;s time to bake! However, before you can begin, it&rsquo;s important to understand the key differences between conventional and local flour that will be helpful as you start to bake:</p>

<ul>
	<li class="bullet">Unlike white, non-descript flour, which you are now aware is mass-produced, roller-milled, and stripped of its inherent nutrients, local flour is often stone-ground to order, full of vitamins and minerals, fragrant, and flavorful. </li>
	<li class="bullet">Fresh, stone-ground flour has a shorter shelf life since it retains the germ and bran. To ward off rancidity, the flour should be used as soon as possible, preferably within two months of the milling date, and stored in a cool, dry place (GrowNYC 2010, 3). If you wish to extend its freshness, store flour in your refrigerator or freezer.</li>
	<li class="bullet">Local flour can be challenging. While conventional flour is known for its uniformity and yields consistent batches of dough one after another, local flour is variable and is subject to change from season-to-season and year-to-year. </li>
	<li class="bullet">Grain varieties differ in protein levels. Northeast grains, due to the climate and other environmental factors, tend to have lower protein levels than those grown in the Midwest. Therefore, when choosing what to bake, take the protein level into consideration (see Box 1). </li>
	<li class="bullet">In the Northeast, many different grains and varieties of grains are grown – spelt, rye, emmer, einkorn, triticale, and wheat varieties, such as Warthog, Redeemer and Red Fife – as well as pseudocereals like buckwheat (see Box 2). Each has its own rich history, character, and flavor profile, and all can be ground to flour and used for baking. </li>
</ul>

<hr />
<p class="boxes"><strong>Box 1. Understanding Protein in Flour</strong></p>

<p class="boxes">Flour contains starch, protein, moisture, and fat. When considering the right flour for your recipe, it&rsquo;s important to take protein level into consideration. There are two proteins found in grains: glutenin and gliadin. Each type of grain has varying degrees of these proteins (Halloran 2015, 70). Gluten, which provides structure for baked goods and breads, is formed when these proteins present in flour combine and mix with water. By adding or withholding water, you can either encourage or deter gluten development (Masibay n.d.). In general, the protein percentage is a good indicator of the flour&rsquo;s baking strength – bread flour typically has a protein content of 12-15 percent, all-purpose ranges from 9-12 percent, pastry flour is 8-9 percent, and cake flour has 7-8 percent (Masibay n.d.). High-protein flours are better for baking breads, whereas low-protein flours are better for pastries such as cakes, cookies, and biscuits (Debros 2014).</p>
<hr class="follow2" />

<p>	In addition, I&rsquo;ve included some baking tips below gleaned from my own experience, other resources, and those interviewed for this guide to help you match the right flour to the right recipe:</p>

<ul>
	<li class="bullet">An easy way to get to know a specific flour is to try making shortbreads, crackers, pancakes, waffles, and crepes, which are a &ldquo;great vehicle to test-drive most flours&rdquo; (Halloran 2015, 115-116; Halloran 2016). </li>
	<li class="bullet">Experiment with blending and sifting whole-grain flours before using them in recipes (Stevens 2016).</li>
	<li class="bullet">Generally, local flours are more absorbent; you may need to adjust the amount of liquid used and let the batter or dough sit after mixing to allow the liquid to be absorbed (Endriss 2016; Williams 2016).</li>
	<li class="bullet">Use the flour as a flavor element by substituting a portion of the conventional flour called for in the recipe (Halloran 2016). You can also substitute more stone-ground flour in pastries because, as opposed to bread, they don&rsquo;t need as much structure and rely on leaveners to rise (Endriss 2016).</li>
	<li class="bullet">&ldquo;Fresh flour is alive,&rdquo; therefore if you&rsquo;re making bread, your dough will ferment faster and you will need to adjust your fermentation times (Marvin 2016; Williams 2016). Also, bread made with whole grains should sit overnight before consuming; the flavors will meld as the moist, dense bread dries out (Rodriguez 2016).</li>
</ul>


<hr />
<p class="boxes"><strong>Box 2. Demystifying Ancient, Heirloom, and Modern Grains</strong></p>
<p class="boxes">Recently, you may have seen the words, &ldquo;ancient grains,&rdquo; written on the packaging of cereals, breads, baked goods, and pasta at your grocery store, but were unsure of what constitutes an ancient grain and how that differs from an heirloom (or heritage) grain and a modern grain. </p>
<p class="boxes">Here is a brief introduction to ancient, heirloom, and modern grains to help demystify your next shopping trip:</p>
	
<ul>
	<li class="bullet">Einkorn, emmer, spelt, and kamut are typically classified as <i>ancient grains</i>. These wheats date from the early domestication of staple crops, however there is no federal standard that regulates the classification of ancient grains (Menayang 2016).</li>
	<li class="bullet">Grain varieties that were developed before 1950, considered the advent of professional plant breeding programs, are known as <i>heirloom (or heritage) grains</i> (Halloran 2015, 44). For example, Red Fife, a variety of wheat, is categorized as an heirloom grain. Unlike modern grains, ancient and heirloom grains are tall, diverse, and comprise an assembly of unique traits, ranging from disease resistance to heat or drought tolerance to water efficiency. </li>
	<li class="bullet"><i>Modern grains</i>, those developed by plant breeding programs after 1950, generally have shorter stalks (semidwarf), are high yielding, and rely on synthetic fertilizers and pesticides to grow. Dr. Norman E. Borlaug, the &ldquo;Father of the Green Revolution,&rdquo; is credited with developing modern wheat. Approximately 50 percent of all worldwide wheat consists of semidwarf varieties, with the total reaching 90 percent in the developing world (Shiferaw et al. 2013, 299). </li>
</ul>
<hr />

</body>
</html>
