<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Growing Grains in the Northeast</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>

<h1 id="chaptertitle">Growing Grains in the Northeast</h1>

<p>Grain farming in the Northeast is no easy task. Climate, pests and diseases can spell trouble. Humid summers can lower protein levels and increase the risk of fusarium head blight, a fungus that produces vomitoxin, which when ingested may cause vomiting and diarrhea in humans and animals (Mallory et al. 2012; Halloran 2015, 13). As you read in &ldquo;Regional History,&rdquo; grains in the Northeast continue to be susceptible to the Hessian fly and rust.</p>

<p>	Given these constraints, farmers must employ various techniques in order to grow grains successfully. Crop rotation, growing a mixture of different crops or varieties of a single crop, helps control pests, diseases, and weeds (Magdoff and van Es 2009, 115). Nate Rogers of Rogers Farmstead and Sam Mudge of Grange Corner Farm rotate their crops according to a farm plan. Currently, Nate rotates wheat, oats, and grass, while Sam rotates wheat, oats, corn, green peas, and buckwheat (Rogers 2016; Mudge 2016). Another technique is the use of cover crops, which help maintain soil fertility, structure, and productivity, and prevent soil erosion (Magdoff and van Es 2009, 101). </p>

<p>	In the Northeast, there are two growing seasons – winter and spring. Winter grains, such as rye, are planted in the fall and harvested the following spring or summer (Kersbergen, Mallory, and Molloy 2010, 1). Spring grains – oats and barley– are planted in the spring and harvested in late summer (Kersbergen, Mallory, and Molloy 2010, 1). Wheat, spelt, triticale, einkorn, and emmer can be either winter or spring grains (Kersbergen, Mallory, and Molloy 2010, 1). </p>

<p>	Grains are ready to be harvested when they are mature. The stalks, which can be cut by hand, a mower, or a combine, are gathered into sheaves where they can further dry and become fully ripe (Seymour 2009, 248). The stalks are then threshed and winnowed, freeing the grains and separating them from the chaff and hulls. Some grains, such as spelt, emmer, and einkorn, require further dehulling due to their tough, inedible hulls (Halloran 2015, 66). After cleaning, the grains are ready to be eaten, milled, or stored indefinitely in containers in a cool, dry place.</p>

</body>
</html>

