<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Emmer</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="chaptertitle">Emmer</h1>
<p><i>Emmer</i></p>
<p>	Emmer (<i>Triticum dicoccum)</i>, which is often referred to as farro (see Glossary), is descended from einkorn. Approximately 300,000 to 500,000 years ago, wild einkorn crossed with a goat grass to produce wild emmer (Peng, Sun, and Nevo 2011, 283). Around 10,000 years ago, hunter-gatherers began the process of domesticating wild emmer (Peng, Sun, and Nevo 2011, 283). Cultivated emmer was the most important crop in the Fertile Crescent, and like einkorn, it is experiencing renewed interest within the Northeast (Salamini et al. 2002, 433; Faris 2014, 447). This ancient wheat is prized for its high protein level (ranging from 16 to 18 percent), versatility, and bold flavor (Lyons 2007). </p>
<p>	The emmer growing locally comes from Europe by way of North Dakota, where German immigrants began growing numerous varieties beginning in the late nineteenth century (GrowNYC 2010, 5). To this day, North Dakota remains the epicenter of emmer culture in the United States, however farmers such as Farmer Ground Flour and Lakeview Organic Grain in New York have encountered success growing and supplying emmer to chefs and bakers throughout the Northeast region. In this climate, emmer grows well on fertile soils and without chemical inputs (GrowNYC 2010, 5). </p>
<p>	During early civilizations, emmer was consumed as porridge prior to the development of bread baking; in modern times, it is now enjoyed in many forms, as pasta, bread, risotto, and in pastries (Lazor 2013, 176). This low-gluten, rich-tasting grain can be used in place of whole wheat flour in most recipes, but you may need to increase the amount of liquid by 25 percent, since it absorbs moisture rather quickly (Bluebird Grain Farms 2016). </p>
<p> </p>

<p>Emmer Pound Cake</p>
<p>Adapted from <a href="http://goo.gl/sgCzTy">Alice Medrich&rsquo;s Pure Dessert</a></p>
<p>Yield: 1 loaf</p>

<p>3 tablespoons whole milk, at room temperature</p>
<p>3 large eggs, at room temperature</p>
<p>1½ teaspoons vanilla extract</p>
<p>1 cup cake flour, sifted</p>
<p>⅓ cup plus 1 tablespoon emmer flour<i> </i></p>
<p>¾ cup sugar</p>
<p>¾ teaspoon baking powder</p>
<p>¼ teaspoon salt</p>
<p>13 tablespoons (6.5 ounces) unsalted butter, softened and cut into small cubes</p>

<p>1.	Preheat oven to 350º F. Prepare loaf pan with either butter and flour or pan spray, and line bottom with parchment paper. </p>
<p>2.	Whisk together milk, eggs, and vanilla extract in a medium-sized bowl.</p>
<p>3.	Combine cake flour, emmer flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl. Add the butter to the flour mixture, pour in half of the egg mixture, and beat on low speed until just combined. Increase speed to high and beat for 1 minute. Scrape down the sides of the bowl, then add half of the remaining egg mixture, and beat for 20 seconds. Scrape the bowl again, add the rest of the egg mixture, and beat for a final 20 seconds.</p>
<p>4.	Pour batter into prepared pan and smooth the surface. Bake until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean, about 55 to 65 minutes. Cool the loaf in the pan on a rack for 10 minutes, then remove loaf from pan, and cool completely on rack. </p>

</body>
</html>

