<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Spelt Banana Bread</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h3>Spelt Banana Bread</h3>
<p class="spaced">Loosely adapted from <a href="http://joythebaker.com/2014/03/brown-butter-banana-bread/">Joy the Baker</a></p>
<p class="spaced">Yield: 1 loaf</p>

<p class="first">6 ounces unsalted butter, browned and cooled</p>
<p class="first">2 cups spelt flour</p>
<p class="first">½ cup light brown sugar</p>
<p class="first">¼ cup granulated sugar</p>
<p class="first">1 teaspoon baking soda</p>
<p class="first">½ teaspoon salt</p>
<p class="first">½ teaspoon ground cinnamon</p>
<p class="first">¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg</p>
<p class="first">2 large eggs</p>
<p class="first">1 teaspoon vanilla extract</p>
<p class="first">½ cup buttermilk</p>
<p class="first">3 medium bananas, mashed</p>
<p class="first">2 teaspoons molasses</p>
<p class="first">1-2 cups of toasted walnuts, chocolate chips, and/or toasted shredded coconut (optional)</p>

<ol>
	<li class="recipe">Preheat oven to 350°F. Prepare loaf pan with either butter and flour or pan spray, and line bottom with parchment paper. </li>
	<li class="recipe">In a large bowl, combine flour, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, and nutmeg.</li>
	<li class="recipe">In a medium bowl, beat eggs, sugars, vanilla extract, and buttermilk. Stir in the mashed bananas and molasses, then whisk in the cooled browned butter.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Add the wet ingredients to the bowl of dry ingredients, stir altogether. Throw in walnuts, chocolate chips, and/or toasted shredded coconut and give the batter a quick stir.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Pour batter into prepared loaf pan. Bake bread until a toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, about 60 minutes. Cool the loaf in the pan on a rack for 15 minutes, then remove loaf from pan, and cool completely on rack. </li>
</ol>

</body>
</html>

