<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Triticale Zucchini Bread</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h3>Triticale Zucchini Bread</h3>
<p class="spaced">Loosely adapted from <a href="https://smittenkitchen.com/2007/07/summer-of-the-bats/">Smitten Kitchen</a></p>
<p class="spaced">Yield: 1 loaf</p>

<p>2 large eggs</p>
<p>½ cup vegetable oil</p>
<p>7 tablespoons granulated sugar</p>
<p>7 tablespoons light brown sugar</p>
<p>1 cup grated zucchini</p>
<p>1 teaspoon vanilla extract</p>
<p>1 cup all-purpose flour</p>
<p>½ cup triticale flour</p>
<p>1 teaspoon ground cinnamon</p>
<p>1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg</p>
<p>½ teaspoon baking soda</p>
<p>¼ teaspoon baking powder</p>
<p>½ teaspoon salt</p>
<p>⅓ cup chopped walnuts, toasted</p>
<p>turbinado sugar, optional</p>

	<ol>
	<li class="recipe">Preheat oven to 350°F. Prepare loaf pan with either butter and flour or pan spray, and line bottom with parchment paper. </li>
	<li class="recipe">In a large bowl, beat the eggs, oil, and sugar. Mix in zucchini and vanilla extract.</li>
	<li class="recipe">In a separate medium-sized bowl, combine all-purpose flour, triticale flour, cinnamon, nutmeg, baking soda, baking powder, salt, and walnuts.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Add flour mixture to egg mixture and stir. Pour batter into prepared loaf pan and sprinkle turbinado sugar over top if using.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Bake bread until a toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, about 60 minutes. Cool the loaf in the pan on a rack for 15 minutes, then remove loaf from pan, and cool completely on rack. </li>
</ol>

</body>
</html>

