<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Sprouted Wheat Country Bread</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h3>Sprouted Wheat Country Bread</h3>
<p class="spaced">Inspired by Tartine Bread and <a href="http://abreaducation.com/blog/2012/07/sprouted-country-bread/">a Breaducation</a></p>
<p class="spaced">Yield: 1 loaf</p>

<p class="spaced">Depending on your level of comfort, feel free to substitute your choice of local wheat flour for the white whole wheat flour and/or bread flour in this recipe. I would suggest adjusting the amount of water as you go and watching the dough develop as time passes.</p>

<p>Ingredient	Quantity	Baker&rsquo;s Percentage</p>
<p>Starter	100 grams	19%</p>
<p>Sprouted Wheat Berries	110 grams	21%</p>
<p>Water	325 grams	61%</p>
<p>Bread Flour	300 grams	56%</p>
<p>White Whole Wheat Flour	125 grams	23%</p>
<p>Salt	10 grams	2%</p>

<ol>
	<li class="recipe">Sprout your wheat berries. Once they&rsquo;re ready, plop them into a food processor and process until a dough forms. </li>
	<li class="recipe">Weigh your starter into a medium-sized bowl, followed by 110 grams of the ground sprouted wheat, then the water. Mix.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Add both flours, mix, then let it rest for 30 minutes, covering the bowl with a kitchen towel.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Add the salt and incorporate it into the rough mass of dough with your fingers.</li>
	<li class="recipe">At this point, do the first fold. Let the dough rest for 30 minutes then do another fold; repeat. The bulk fermentation typically lasts between 3-4 hours and depends entirely on your dough and the ambient room temperature.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Once the dough is aerated and has increased in volume, pre-shape the dough, sprinkle lightly with flour, cover with a kitchen towel, and let it rest for 30 minutes.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Proceed with the final shaping of the dough, placing it seam side up in your prepared basket or bowl and cover with a kitchen towel. Retard in the refrigerator for 8-12 hours (my preferred method), or let the dough rise for 3 to 4 hours at room temperature (75˚-80˚F). To test if it&rsquo;s ready for the oven, press the dough lightly with your finger, if it springs back slowly, it&rsquo;s go time.</li>
	<li class="recipe">When it&rsquo;s time to bake, preheat your oven to 500˚F along with your Dutch oven. If you retarded your dough, remove it from the refrigerator. When the oven is hot and ready, turn your bread out into the Dutch oven, slash the top, pop on the lid, and slide it back into the oven. Turn the oven down to 450˚F and bake for 20 minutes. After the initial 20 minutes, remove the lid and bake for another 20-25 minutes. To test for doneness, tap the bottom of the loaf, it&rsquo;ll sound hollow.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Let cool on a rack for several hours, then slice and eat.</li>
</ol>

</body>
</html>
