<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Einkorn Muffins with Oat Crumble Topping</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h3>Einkorn Muffins with Oat Crumble Topping</h3>

<p class="spaced">Yield: 10 muffins</p>

<p class="first"><i>Oat Crumble Topping</i> (adapted from <i>The Four &amp; Twenty Blackbirds Pie Book</i>)</p>
<p class="first">2 tablespoons granulated sugar</p>
<p class="first">¼ cup light brown sugar</p>
<p class="first">¾ cup rolled oats</p>
<p class="first">⅓ cup oat flour</p>
<p class="first">½ teaspoon salt</p>
<p class="first">⅛ teaspoon ground allspice</p>
<p class="first">⅛ teaspoon ground cardamom</p>
<p class="first">⅛ teaspoon ground cinnamon</p>
<p class="first">4 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened</p>

<p class="first"><i>Muffins</i></p>

<p class="first">4 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into cubes and softened</p>
<p class="first">½ cup granulated sugar</p>
<p class="first">½ cup light brown sugar</p>
<p class="first">2 large eggs</p>
<p class="first">1 teaspoon vanilla extract</p>
<p class="first">1 cup einkorn flour</p>
<p class="first">½ cup all-purpose flour</p>
<p class="first">2 teaspoons baking powder</p>
<p class="first">½ teaspoon salt</p>
<p class="first">½ cup dried sweetened cranberries</p>

<ol>
	<li class="recipe">Preheat oven to 350º F. Prepare muffin pan with pan spray and insert baking cups.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Prepare oat crumble topping. In a medium bowl, combine all the dry ingredients. Add the butter and toss to coat. Using your fingertips, rub the butter into the dry ingredients until well incorporated. Refrigerate for at least 15 minutes. </li>
	<li class="recipe">For muffins, cream butter and sugars together in a large bowl. Add eggs and vanilla extract and beat on high speed for 1 minute. </li>
	<li class="recipe">In a medium bowl, combine flours, baking powder, and salt. Sift mixture over wet batter. Stir in flour mixture, then add cranberries, and stir until just combined. </li>
	<li class="recipe">Distribute batter evenly between baking cups. Top each muffin with 1 tablespoon of crumble. Bake until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool the muffins in the pan on a rack for 5 minutes, then remove muffins from pan, and cool completely on rack. </li>
</ol>

</body>
</html>

