<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Turning Grains into Flour</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>

<h1 id="chaptertitle">Turning Grains into Flour</h1>

<p>	Small mills used to dot the landscape of the Northeast. These communal water- and wind-powered gristmills, located on streams or small rivers, were well suited to the topography of the region (Lazor 2013, 205). Those early stone mills ground their grains whole – germ, bran, and endosperm. The resulting &ldquo;unrefined&rdquo; flour was not white, but rather golden, since it retains the germ and bran and also all of the essential vitamins, minerals, and fiber. To &ldquo;whiten&rdquo; the flour, housewives would sift the flour through a cloth or a screen to remove a portion of the bran; this process is called bolting (Frisch 2008). For example, &ldquo;whole wheat flour has very little of the bran sifted out, while a &ldquo;half-white&rdquo; flour will have some of the bran removed&rdquo; (GrowNYC 2010, 5). Thus, bolting lightens the flour, but does not separate out the nutrients. By the late 1700s, mills began installing bolting equipment so they could whiten the flour (Frisch 2008).</p>
<p>	All of this changed with the invention of the roller mill in the 1880s. In a roller mill, the germ and bran are removed first, then the endosperm is separated and subsequently passed through the rollers and sifted multiple times to produce pure white flour (Lazor 2013, 215). While this flour did not go rancid due to the removal of the germ, it retained only trace amounts of the original vitamins and nutrients. The roller mill was a boon for the flour industry – &ldquo;mills could now source wheat from all over, blend it to achieve consistency, and transport it across the nation without worrying about shelf life&rdquo; (Jabr 2015). In addition, beginning in the 1940s, white flour was enriched with iron and B vitamins in order to compensate for lost nutrients (Jabr 2015). Even whole-wheat flour is enriched – it is processed exactly like white flour with some of the germ and bran added back in at the end. Ultimately, we sacrificed quality, flavor, and nutrition for the mass production of shelf-stable white flour.</p>
<p>	Encouragingly, stone mills are once again on the rise in the Northeast (fig. 2). Those interviewed for this guide who mill their own grains possess a range of stone mills from ones they have built to ones shipped from Europe to ones from the famous Meadows Mill Company in North Carolina. Unlike computer-controlled modern roller mills, these mills require that a skilled miller be present throughout the entire process to ensure the stones are not getting too hot (heat kills the vitamins and minerals) and checking on the texture of the flour (Weise 2006). Unfortunately, the term &ldquo;stone ground&rdquo; is not regulated and even roller-milled flour can be labeled &ldquo;stone ground&rdquo; if it touches a stone during the process (Weise 2006). Therefore, it is important when purchasing local flour to research farmers and millers in your area (refer to the &ldquo;Resources&rdquo; section), ask questions about the flour, and cultivate a relationship.</p>
<p> </p>

<p>Figure 2. A Modern Stone Mill built by Andrew Heyn of Elmore Mountain Bread</p>

<p>Source: New American Stone Mills</p></body>
</html>

