<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Wheat</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="chaptertitle">Wheat</h1>
<p>As you&rsquo;ve discovered by now, wheat and humankind are intertwined. A grain that was once collected in the wild by hunter-gatherers accounts for 95 percent of worldwide wheat production (Peng, Sun, and Nevo 2011, 282). Today, bread wheat (<i>Triticum aestivum</i>), also known as common wheat, is a staple food for 40 percent of the world&rsquo;s population and provides 20 percent of the total calories consumed by humans (Peng, Sun, and Nevo 2011, 282). It is used to make a variety of food products, including breads, cakes, and pastries, that are central to cuisines and cultures around the world. 	</p>
<p>	The domestication of wild bread wheat, a cross between cultivated emmer and goat grass that emerged in the Fertile Crescent, likely took place over thousands of years (Tanno and Willcox 2006, 1886). Unlike einkorn, emmer, and spelt, which are collectively known as the covered or the hulled wheats and as farro (see Glossary), bread wheat is free-threshing, meaning that its kernels separate more easily from the hull. This advantage enabled wheat&rsquo;s expansion in all directions from its origin. Wheat traveled north into the Balkan Peninsula, west towards Spain, east towards China, and south into Africa (Shewry 2009, 1538-1539). Colonists introduced wheat to the land that became the United States, where it continues its reign as the most widely-consumed grain.</p>
<p>	There are six classes of wheat: hard red winter, hard red spring, soft red winter, durum, hard white, and soft white (Halloran 2015, 61). To learn which wheat is best suited for a recipe, it&rsquo;s important to understand several distinctions:</p>
<p>•	Hard versus soft wheat: Hard wheat is used to make bread flour and soft wheat is typically found in pastry or cake flours (see Box 1). All-purpose flour is a blend of hard and soft wheat.</p>
<p>•	Red versus white wheat: Red and white refer to the color of the bran. Red wheat contains tannins that lend it a slightly bitter, more robust flavor and a reddish color GrowNYC 2010, 4-5). White wheat has no tannins, thus giving it a milder flavor and a light color (GrowNYC 2010, 4-5). </p>
<p>•	Winter versus spring wheat: Winter wheat, which is lower in protein but higher in minerals, is planted in the fall and harvested the following spring or summer (GrowNYC 2010, 4-5). Spring wheat, which has the highest protein content, is planted in the spring and harvested in late summer. </p>
<p>•	Durum wheat: Known as macaroni wheat, durum wheat is traditionally used for making pasta since it is low gluten. It cannot thrive in the Northeast since it prefers arid conditions (Lazor 2013, 188-189).</p>
<p>	In the Northeast, farmers, millers, and bakers are excited about certain heirloom and modern varieties being grown with success in our region. Farmers are experimenting with different varieties, as researchers at Cornell University, the University of Vermont, and the University of Maine conduct variety trials to see which varieties do well in our region. Popular varieties include Redeemer and Warthog, both hard red winter wheats; Red Fife, a hard red winter or spring wheat; Glenn, Magog, and Marquis, all hard red spring wheats; and Frederick, a soft white wheat. Nate Rogers of Rogers Farmstead currently grows 26 acres of Redeemer, while Sam Mudge of Grange Corner Farm plants a mix of winter wheats, including Warthog, and spring wheats, such as Red Fife (Rogers 2016; Mudge 2016). As for flavor, Blair Marvin (2016) eloquently states that these locally-grown varieties, which can be sweet, nutty, or robust, all have a &ldquo;taste of place.&rdquo; </p>

<p>Sprouted Wheat Country Bread</p>
<p>Inspired by Tartine Bread and <a href="http://abreaducation.com/blog/2012/07/sprouted-country-bread/">a Breaducation</a></p>
<p>Yield: 1 loaf</p>

<p>Depending on your level of comfort, feel free to substitute your choice of local wheat flour for the white whole wheat flour and/or bread flour in this recipe. I would suggest adjusting the amount of water as you go and watching the dough develop as time passes.</p>

<p>Ingredient	Quantity	Baker&rsquo;s Percentage</p>
<p>Starter	100 grams	19%</p>
<p>Sprouted Wheat Berries	110 grams	21%</p>
<p>Water	325 grams	61%</p>
<p>Bread Flour	300 grams	56%</p>
<p>White Whole Wheat Flour	125 grams	23%</p>
<p>Salt	10 grams	2%</p>

<p>1. Sprout your wheat berries. Once they&rsquo;re ready, plop them into a food processor and process until a dough forms. </p>

<p>2. Weigh your starter into a medium-sized bowl, followed by 110 grams of the ground sprouted wheat, then the water. Mix.</p>

<p>3. Add both flours, mix, then let it rest for 30 minutes, covering the bowl with a kitchen towel.</p>

<p>4. Add the salt and incorporate it into the rough mass of dough with your fingers.</p>

<p>5. At this point, do the first fold. Let the dough rest for 30 minutes then do another fold; repeat. The bulk fermentation typically lasts between 3-4 hours and depends entirely on your dough and the ambient room temperature.</p>

<p>6. Once the dough is aerated and has increased in volume, pre-shape the dough, sprinkle lightly with flour, cover with a kitchen towel, and let it rest for 30 minutes.</p>

<p>7. Proceed with the final shaping of the dough, placing it seam side up in your prepared basket or bowl and cover with a kitchen towel. Retard in the refrigerator for 8-12 hours (my preferred method), or let the dough rise for 3 to 4 hours at room temperature (75˚-80˚F). To test if it&rsquo;s ready for the oven, press the dough lightly with your finger, if it springs back slowly, it&rsquo;s go time.</p>

<p>8. When it&rsquo;s time to bake, preheat your oven to 500˚F along with your Dutch oven. If you retarded your dough, remove it from the refrigerator. When the oven is hot and ready, turn your bread out into the Dutch oven, slash the top, pop on the lid, and slide it back into the oven. Turn the oven down to 450˚F and bake for 20 minutes. After the initial 20 minutes, remove the lid and bake for another 20-25 minutes. To test for doneness, tap the bottom of the loaf, it&rsquo;ll sound hollow.</p>

<p>9. Let cool on a rack for several hours, then slice and eat.</p>


</body>
</html>

