<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Emmer</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>

<h3>Emmer Pound Cake</h3>
<p class="spaced">Adapted from <a href="http://goo.gl/sgCzTy">Alice Medrich&rsquo;s Pure Dessert</a></p>
<p class="spaced">Yield: 1 loaf</p>

<p class="first">3 tablespoons whole milk, at room temperature</p>
<p class="first">3 large eggs, at room temperature</p>
<p class="first">1½ teaspoons vanilla extract</p>
<p class="first">1 cup cake flour, sifted</p>
<p class="first">⅓ cup plus 1 tablespoon emmer flour<i> </i></p>
<p class="first">¾ cup sugar</p>
<p class="first">¾ teaspoon baking powder</p>
<p class="first">¼ teaspoon salt</p>
<p class="first">13 tablespoons (6.5 ounces) unsalted butter, softened and cut into small cubes</p>

<ol>
	<li class="recipe">Preheat oven to 350º F. Prepare loaf pan with either butter and flour or pan spray, and line bottom with parchment paper. </li>
	<li class="recipe">Whisk together milk, eggs, and vanilla extract in a medium-sized bowl.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Combine cake flour, emmer flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl. Add the butter to the flour mixture, pour in half of the egg mixture, and beat on low speed until just combined. Increase speed to high and beat for 1 minute. Scrape down the sides of the bowl, then add half of the remaining egg mixture, and beat for 20 seconds. Scrape the bowl again, add the rest of the egg mixture, and beat for a final 20 seconds.</li>
	<li class="recipe">Pour batter into prepared pan and smooth the surface. Bake until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean, about 55 to 65 minutes. Cool the loaf in the pan on a rack for 10 minutes, then remove loaf from pan, and cool completely on rack. </li>
</ol>

</body>
</html>

