<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Grains 101</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="chaptertitle">Grains 101</h1>
<p>Before we delve into this exciting new world of grains, it is essential to first become acquainted with the basics. First, we&rsquo;ll examine grain anatomy and what makes up each individual kernel. Then, we&rsquo;ll follow the journey from field to flour by exploring how grains are grown, harvested, and stored, and subsequently their transformation into flour. Finally, I&rsquo;ll share insight gleaned from professional bakers so you can successfully bake with and enjoy these local flours. </p>
<p><i>Grain Anatomy</i></p>
<p>A single grain kernel contains many beneficial vitamins and minerals (fig. 1). </p>
<p>Figure 1. Anatomy of a Grain Kernel</p>

<p>Source: GrowNYC</p>

<p>•	The bran, the outside layer of the kernel, constitutes 14 percent of the grain (GrowNYC 2010, 2). It is loaded with B vitamins, calcium, iron, magnesium, phosphorous, potassium, zinc, copper, manganese, selenium, dietary fiber and iron (Basey 2004; Lazor 2013, 205). </p>
<p>•	The germ, the embryo of the seed, makes up 2.5 percent of the kernel and contains 10 percent fat in the form of essential fatty acids (GrowNYC 2010, 2). It is rich in B vitamins, including thiamin, riboflavin, and niacin, and vitamin E (Basey 2004).</p>
<p>•	The endosperm (or starch), which serves as the food component for the embryo, makes up 83 percent of the kernel (Lazor 2013, 205). It has iron, protein, carbohydrates, B vitamins, and soluble fiber (GrowNYC 2010, 2). Conventional white flour consists purely of ground endosperm, whereas whole wheat flour includes varying amounts of the germ and bran.</p>
<p><i>Growing Grains in the Northeast</i></p>
<p>Grain farming in the Northeast is no easy task. Climate, pests and diseases can spell trouble. Humid summers can lower protein levels and increase the risk of fusarium head blight, a fungus that produces vomitoxin, which when ingested may cause vomiting and diarrhea in humans and animals (Mallory et al. 2012; Halloran 2015, 13). As you read in &ldquo;Regional History,&rdquo; grains in the Northeast continue to be susceptible to the Hessian fly and rust. 	</p>
<p>	Given these constraints, farmers must employ various techniques in order to grow grains successfully. Crop rotation, growing a mixture of different crops or varieties of a single crop, helps control pests, diseases, and weeds (Magdoff and van Es 2009, 115). Nate Rogers of Rogers Farmstead and Sam Mudge of Grange Corner Farm rotate their crops according to a farm plan. Currently, Nate rotates wheat, oats, and grass, while Sam rotates wheat, oats, corn, green peas, and buckwheat (Rogers 2016; Mudge 2016). Another technique is the use of cover crops, which help maintain soil fertility, structure, and productivity, and prevent soil erosion (Magdoff and van Es 2009, 101). </p>
<p>	In the Northeast, there are two growing seasons – winter and spring. Winter grains, such as rye, are planted in the fall and harvested the following spring or summer (Kersbergen, Mallory, and Molloy 2010, 1). Spring grains – oats and barley– are planted in the spring and harvested in late summer (Kersbergen, Mallory, and Molloy 2010, 1). Wheat, spelt, triticale, einkorn, and emmer can be either winter or spring grains (Kersbergen, Mallory, and Molloy 2010, 1). </p>
<p>	Grains are ready to be harvested when they are mature. The stalks, which can be cut by hand, a mower, or a combine, are gathered into sheaves where they can further dry and become fully ripe (Seymour 2009, 248). The stalks are then threshed and winnowed, freeing the grains and separating them from the chaff and hulls. Some grains, such as spelt, emmer, and einkorn, require further dehulling due to their tough, inedible hulls (Halloran 2015, 66). After cleaning, the grains are ready to be eaten, milled, or stored indefinitely in containers in a cool, dry place.</p>
<p><i>Turning Grains into Flour</i></p>
<p>	Small mills used to dot the landscape of the Northeast. These communal water- and wind-powered gristmills, located on streams or small rivers, were well suited to the topography of the region (Lazor 2013, 205). Those early stone mills ground their grains whole – germ, bran, and endosperm. The resulting &ldquo;unrefined&rdquo; flour was not white, but rather golden, since it retains the germ and bran and also all of the essential vitamins, minerals, and fiber. To &ldquo;whiten&rdquo; the flour, housewives would sift the flour through a cloth or a screen to remove a portion of the bran; this process is called bolting (Frisch 2008). For example, &ldquo;whole wheat flour has very little of the bran sifted out, while a &ldquo;half-white&rdquo; flour will have some of the bran removed&rdquo; (GrowNYC 2010, 5). Thus, bolting lightens the flour, but does not separate out the nutrients. By the late 1700s, mills began installing bolting equipment so they could whiten the flour (Frisch 2008).</p>
<p>	All of this changed with the invention of the roller mill in the 1880s. In a roller mill, the germ and bran are removed first, then the endosperm is separated and subsequently passed through the rollers and sifted multiple times to produce pure white flour (Lazor 2013, 215). While this flour did not go rancid due to the removal of the germ, it retained only trace amounts of the original vitamins and nutrients. The roller mill was a boon for the flour industry – &ldquo;mills could now source wheat from all over, blend it to achieve consistency, and transport it across the nation without worrying about shelf life&rdquo; (Jabr 2015). In addition, beginning in the 1940s, white flour was enriched with iron and B vitamins in order to compensate for lost nutrients (Jabr 2015). Even whole-wheat flour is enriched – it is processed exactly like white flour with some of the germ and bran added back in at the end. Ultimately, we sacrificed quality, flavor, and nutrition for the mass production of shelf-stable white flour.</p>
<p>	Encouragingly, stone mills are once again on the rise in the Northeast (fig. 2). Those interviewed for this guide who mill their own grains possess a range of stone mills from ones they have built to ones shipped from Europe to ones from the famous Meadows Mill Company in North Carolina. Unlike computer-controlled modern roller mills, these mills require that a skilled miller be present throughout the entire process to ensure the stones are not getting too hot (heat kills the vitamins and minerals) and checking on the texture of the flour (Weise 2006). Unfortunately, the term &ldquo;stone ground&rdquo; is not regulated and even roller-milled flour can be labeled &ldquo;stone ground&rdquo; if it touches a stone during the process (Weise 2006). Therefore, it is important when purchasing local flour to research farmers and millers in your area (refer to the &ldquo;Resources&rdquo; section), ask questions about the flour, and cultivate a relationship.</p>
<p> </p>

<p>Figure 2. A Modern Stone Mill built by Andrew Heyn of Elmore Mountain Bread</p>

<p>Source: New American Stone Mills</p>
<p><i>Baking with Local Flours</i></p>
<p>Once you have some farm-fresh flour in your pantry, it&rsquo;s time to bake! However, before you can begin, it&rsquo;s important to understand the key differences between conventional and local flour that will be helpful as you start to bake:</p>
<p>•	Unlike white, non-descript flour, which you are now aware is mass-produced, roller-milled, and stripped of its inherent nutrients, local flour is often stone-ground to order, full of vitamins and minerals, fragrant, and flavorful. </p>
<p>•	Fresh, stone-ground flour has a shorter shelf life since it retains the germ and bran. To ward off rancidity, the flour should be used as soon as possible, preferably within two months of the milling date, and stored in a cool, dry place (GrowNYC 2010, 3). If you wish to extend its freshness, store flour in your refrigerator or freezer.</p>
<p>•	Local flour can be challenging. While conventional flour is known for its uniformity and yields consistent batches of dough one after another, local flour is variable and is subject to change from season-to-season and year-to-year. </p>
<p>•	Grain varieties differ in protein levels. Northeast grains, due to the climate and other environmental factors, tend to have lower protein levels than those grown in the Midwest. Therefore, when choosing what to bake, take the protein level into consideration (see Box 1). </p>
<p>•	In the Northeast, many different grains and varieties of grains are grown – spelt, rye, emmer, einkorn, triticale, and wheat varieties, such as Warthog, Redeemer and Red Fife – as well as pseudocereals like buckwheat (see Box 2). Each has its own rich history, character, and flavor profile, and all can be ground to flour and used for baking. </p>
<p>Box 1. Understanding Protein in Flour</p>
<p>Flour contains starch, protein, moisture, and fat. When considering the right flour for your recipe, it&rsquo;s important to take protein level into consideration. There are two proteins found in grains: glutenin and gliadin. Each type of grain has varying degrees of these proteins (Halloran 2015, 70). Gluten, which provides structure for baked goods and breads, is formed when these proteins present in flour combine and mix with water. By adding or withholding water, you can either encourage or deter gluten development (Masibay n.d.). In general, the protein percentage is a good indicator of the flour&rsquo;s baking strength – bread flour typically has a protein content of 12-15 percent, all-purpose ranges from 9-12 percent, pastry flour is 8-9 percent, and cake flour has 7-8 percent (Masibay n.d.). High-protein flours are better for baking breads, whereas low-protein flours are better for pastries such as cakes, cookies, and biscuits (Debros 2014).</p>
<p>	</p>
<p>	In addition, I&rsquo;ve included some baking tips below gleaned from my own experience, other resources, and those interviewed for this guide to help you match the right flour to the right recipe:</p>
<p>•	An easy way to get to know a specific flour is to try making shortbreads, crackers, pancakes, waffles, and crepes, which are a &ldquo;great vehicle to test-drive most flours&rdquo; (Halloran 2015, 115-116; Halloran 2016). </p>
<p>•	Experiment with blending and sifting whole-grain flours before using them in recipes (Stevens 2016).</p>
<p>•	Generally, local flours are more absorbent; you may need to adjust the amount of liquid used and let the batter or dough sit after mixing to allow the liquid to be absorbed (Endriss 2016; Williams 2016).</p>
<p>•	Use the flour as a flavor element by substituting a portion of the conventional flour called for in the recipe (Halloran 2016). You can also substitute more stone-ground flour in pastries because, as opposed to bread, they don&rsquo;t need as much structure and rely on leaveners to rise (Endriss 2016).</p>
<p>•	&ldquo;Fresh flour is alive,&rdquo; therefore if you&rsquo;re making bread, your dough will ferment faster and you will need to adjust your fermentation times (Marvin 2016; Williams 2016). Also, bread made with whole grains should sit overnight before consuming; the flavors will meld as the moist, dense bread dries out (Rodriguez 2016).</p>




<p>Box 2. Demystifying Ancient, Heirloom, and Modern Grains </p>
<p>Recently, you may have seen the words, &ldquo;ancient grains,&rdquo; written on the packaging of cereals, breads, baked goods, and pasta at your grocery store, but were unsure of what constitutes an ancient grain and how that differs from an heirloom (or heritage) grain and a modern grain. </p>
<p>Here is a brief introduction to ancient, heirloom, and modern grains to help demystify your next shopping trip:</p>
<p>➢	Einkorn, emmer, spelt, and kamut are typically classified as <i>ancient grains</i>. These wheats date from the early domestication of staple crops, however there is no federal standard that regulates the classification of ancient grains (Menayang 2016).</p>
<p>➢	Grain varieties that were developed before 1950, considered the advent of professional plant breeding programs, are known as <i>heirloom (or heritage) grains</i> (Halloran 2015, 44). For example, Red Fife, a variety of wheat, is categorized as an heirloom grain. Unlike modern grains, ancient and heirloom grains are tall, diverse, and comprise an assembly of unique traits, ranging from disease resistance to heat or drought tolerance to water efficiency. </p>
<p>➢	<i>Modern grains</i>, those developed by plant breeding programs after 1950, generally have shorter stalks (semidwarf), are high yielding, and rely on synthetic fertilizers and pesticides to grow. Dr. Norman E. Borlaug, the &ldquo;Father of the Green Revolution,&rdquo; is credited with developing modern wheat. Approximately 50 percent of all worldwide wheat consists of semidwarf varieties, with the total reaching 90 percent in the developing world (Shiferaw et al. 2013, 299). </p>


</body>
</html>

