<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Einkorn</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="chaptertitle">Einkorn</h1>
<p>	Einkorn (<i>Triticum monococcum</i>), which means &ldquo;one grain&rdquo; in German, is truly an ancient grain, having been mentioned in the Bible (Foster 2015; Heritage Grain Conservancy 2016). This flavorful grain has more protein, minerals&mdash;like phosphorus and zinc, and essential amino acids than any other wheat, but has slightly less fiber (GrowNYC 2010, 6; Menayang 2016). Although it is now considered a relic crop due to its limited production and low yield, einkorn is experiencing a resurgence in the Northeast region due to the dedication of Eli Rogosa of the Heritage Grain Conservancy located in Massachusetts. </p>
<p>	The story of how wheat came to be begins with wild einkorn – all varieties of wheat are descendants of this ancient grain. It was first harvested in the wild during the late Paleolithic and early Mesolithic Ages, around 16,000-15,000 BC (Heritage Grain Conservancy 2016). Einkorn is the earliest variety of cultivated wheat, having been domesticated approximately 9,500 years ago in southeastern Turkey (Salamini et al. 2002, 431; Faris 2014, 446). The grain spread from the Middle East to southwestern Europe, proliferating in cool, semi-arid climates (Lazor 2013, 176).</p>
<p>	Like other grains, einkorn can be cooked whole or ground into flour. This rich, nutty-tasting grain can be used in cakes, pastries, and bread; however, it can prove difficult to bake with. Einkorn flour absorbs less fat and absorbs liquids more slowly, therefore a straight substitution of einkorn in place of all-purpose flour will not work in your favor – you must strike the right balance of flour, fat, and liquid (Foster 2015).  If you are substituting einkorn for whole-wheat flour, you may need to decrease the amount of liquid by five to ten percent (Heritage Grain Conservancy 2016). When baking bread, be mindful to let your ingredients sit after mixing to encourage absorption, minimize kneading, incorporate gentle folds, and do a slow rise overnight (Heritage Grain Conservancy 2016). </p>
<p>Einkorn Muffins with Oat Crumble Topping</p>
<p>Yield: 10 muffins</p>

<p><i>Oat Crumble Topping</i> (adapted from <i>The Four &amp; Twenty Blackbirds Pie Book</i>)</p>
<p>2 tablespoons granulated sugar</p>
<p>¼ cup light brown sugar</p>
<p>¾ cup rolled oats</p>
<p>⅓ cup oat flour</p>
<p>½ teaspoon salt</p>
<p>⅛ teaspoon ground allspice</p>
<p>⅛ teaspoon ground cardamom</p>
<p>⅛ teaspoon ground cinnamon</p>
<p>4 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened</p>

<p><i>Muffins</i></p>
<p>4 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into cubes and softened</p>
<p>½ cup granulated sugar</p>
<p>½ cup light brown sugar</p>
<p>2 large eggs</p>
<p>1 teaspoon vanilla extract</p>
<p>1 cup einkorn flour</p>
<p>½ cup all-purpose flour</p>
<p>2 teaspoons baking powder</p>
<p>½ teaspoon salt</p>
<p>½ cup dried sweetened cranberries</p>

<p>1.	Preheat oven to 350º F. Prepare muffin pan with pan spray and insert baking cups.</p>
<p>2.	Prepare oat crumble topping. In a medium bowl, combine all the dry ingredients. Add the butter and toss to coat. Using your fingertips, rub the butter into the dry ingredients until well incorporated. Refrigerate for at least 15 minutes. </p>
<p>3.	For muffins, cream butter and sugars together in a large bowl. Add eggs and vanilla extract and beat on high speed for 1 minute. </p>
<p>4.	In a medium bowl, combine flours, baking powder, and salt. Sift mixture over wet batter. Stir in flour mixture, then add cranberries, and stir until just combined. </p>
<p>5.	Distribute batter evenly between baking cups. Top each muffin with 1 tablespoon of crumble. Bake until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool the muffins in the pan on a rack for 5 minutes, then remove muffins from pan, and cool completely on rack. </p>
<p> </p>
</body>
</html>

