<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Spelt</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="chaptertitle">Spelt</h1>
<p>	Spelt (<i>Triticum spelta</i>) is an ancient grain. Similar to einkorn and emmer, spelt&rsquo;s genetic makeup has remained unchanged for thousands of years. This mild, nutty-flavored grain is rich in protein, vitamins and minerals (Lazor 2013, 284-285). </p>
<p>	The origin of spelt is quite controversial. Evidence points to two separate sites of origin around 6000 BC – one in Asia and the other in Europe. It was formerly thought that spelt resulted from a cross between goat grass and emmer, however recent evidence shows that it actually arose more recently from a cross between bread wheat and emmer (Peng, Sun, and Nevo 2011, 283; Faris 2014, 459-460). This ancient grain eventually made its way to Central Europe, specifically southern Germany and Switzerland, which became the breadbasket for spelt production (Lazor 2013, 285). It arrived in the United States around 1890 and gained popularity in Ohio where many German and Swiss immigrants settled (Lazor 2013, 285). Unfortunately by 1920, spelt fell out of favor with the appearance of bread wheat, but was later saved from extinction in the 1960s by the seed breeding program at Ohio State University (Lazor 2013, 285). To this day, Ohio remains the center of spelt production in the United States (Lazor 2013, 285).</p>
<p>	Spelt flour is a welcome addition in breads, crackers, baked goods, and pasta. Containing less gluten than wheat, spelt produces a light yellow crumb and a soft texture with no trace of bitterness that is often associated with whole wheat flours. It is relatively easy to swap spelt with whole wheat or all-purpose flour in recipes: for baked goods that require more structure such as breads, strike a one-to-one ratio of wheat flour to spelt flour; for pastries that do not rely on structure, you can increase the ratio in spelt&rsquo;s favor or even try using 100 percent spelt (Christensen 2012). Be sure to note that like many other alternative grains, you may need to increase the amount of liquid in the recipe (Boyce 2010, 161). </p>
<p>Spelt Banana Bread</p>
<p>Loosely adapted from <a href="http://joythebaker.com/2014/03/brown-butter-banana-bread/">Joy the Baker</a></p>
<p>Yield: 1 loaf</p>

<p>6 ounces unsalted butter, browned and cooled</p>
<p>2 cups spelt flour</p>
<p>½ cup light brown sugar</p>
<p>¼ cup granulated sugar</p>
<p>1 teaspoon baking soda</p>
<p>½ teaspoon salt</p>
<p>½ teaspoon ground cinnamon</p>
<p>¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg</p>
<p>2 large eggs</p>
<p>1 teaspoon vanilla extract</p>
<p>½ cup buttermilk</p>
<p>3 medium bananas, mashed</p>
<p>2 teaspoons molasses</p>
<p>1-2 cups of toasted walnuts, chocolate chips, and/or toasted shredded coconut (optional)</p>

<p>1.	Preheat oven to 350°F. Prepare loaf pan with either butter and flour or pan spray, and line bottom with parchment paper. </p>

<p>2.	In a large bowl, combine flour, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, and nutmeg.</p>

<p>3.	In a medium bowl, beat eggs, sugars, vanilla extract, and buttermilk. Stir in the mashed bananas and molasses, then whisk in the cooled browned butter.</p>

<p>4.	Add the wet ingredients to the bowl of dry ingredients, stir altogether. Throw in walnuts, chocolate chips, and/or toasted shredded coconut and give the batter a quick stir.</p>

<p>5.	Pour batter into prepared loaf pan. Bake bread until a toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, about 60 minutes. Cool the loaf in the pan on a rack for 15 minutes, then remove loaf from pan, and cool completely on rack. </p>

</body>
</html>

