<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Buckwheat</title>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<meta http-equiv="expires" content="0"/>
<link href="mystyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
<h1 id="chaptertitle">Buckwheat</h1>
<p>Buckwheat (<i>Fagopyrum esculentum)</i> is a pseudocereal – not a true grain, but used in the same way as cereal grains. The plant belongs to the family <i>Polygonaceae </i>and is actually related to sorrel and rhubarb. Buckwheat is gluten-free and is higher in fiber than wheat, but has less protein (Lazor 2013, 374). It is a good source of B vitamins, magnesium, and contains all the amino acids (GrowNYC 2010, 5). </p>
<p>	The word <i>buckwheat</i> comes from the German word <i>buchweisen</i>, which means &ldquo;beech wheat&rdquo; (Lazor 2013, 374). Buckwheat first appeared in China around 1000 AD and soon became a fixture in Japanese and Korean cuisines, where it&rsquo;s the main ingredient in soba noodles (Lazor 2013, 374). The seeds traveled west towards Europe and arrived in North America in the seventeenth century with the colonists. In the Northeast, buckwheat enjoyed popularity in the mid-nineteenth century, where it was often used to make bread and &ldquo;cakes eaten warm&rdquo; (Kelsey 1980). During the early twentieth century, New York and Pennsylvania were the leading buckwheat producers, however it has since declined in popularity (Lazor 2013, 374).</p>
<p>	Buckwheat is a short-season crop, meaning it matures in just 12 weeks after planting in spring to late summer (Cornell University 2009). It thrives in cool, moist climates, which makes it an ideal crop for the Northeast. Varieties include Koto, Manisoba, Manor, Keukett, and Common (Cornell University 2009). Once harvested, the seeds can be sold whole as groats, toasted and sold as kasha, or ground into flour.</p>
<p>	Buckwheat flour is almost purple in color and has a strong, earthy, slightly bitter flavor. Since it contains no gluten, it is important to take this into consideration when choosing the right recipe for this flour. For example, you can use buckwheat alone in baked goods that do not require gluten such as crepes and shortbread (Boyce 2010, 77). For recipes that need more structure, add in an equal or slightly greater amount of all-purpose flour when making pancakes, biscuits, or muffins (Boyce 2010, 77). Ideal flavor pairings for buckwheat include fall fruits, walnuts, toasted hazelnuts, dried fruit, dark spice, coffee, salt, brown sugar, fresh figs, and honey (Medrich 2014, 170). </p>
<p>Buckwheat Pie Crust</p>
<p>Yield: 1 pie crust</p>

<p>½ cup + 2 tablespoons buckwheat flour</p>
<p>½ cup + 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour</p>
<p>½ teaspoon salt</p>
<p>2 tablespoons light brown sugar</p>
<p>1 stick (4 ounces) unsalted butter, cut into small cubes</p>
<p>5 tablespoons cold water </p>

<p>1.	Combine buckwheat flour, all-purpose flour, salt, and brown sugar in a medium-sized bowl. Stir together.</p>
<p>2.	Add the butter and coat with the flour mixture. With a pastry blender, cut the butter into the flour mixture until only pea-size pieces of butter remain. </p>
<p>3.	Sprinkle 3 tablespoons of water over the mixture. Use the pastry blender to incorporate the water. Add remaining 2 tablespoons of water and use your hands to mix the dough until it gathers into a ball, only adding more water ‒ 1 teaspoon at a time ‒ if dry bits of dough remain. Bring the dough together and shape into a flat disc. Wrap it in plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 2 hours before using.</p>
</body>
</html>

